[Music]
hi
i'm new one but i'm also known as tiny
girl eats world over on instagram where
you can find me sharing the best eats
i've traveled the globe to try different
cuisines from the hawker centers in
singapore
to the local food that samoan people eat
there is an
amazing world of food out there but in
this series i'm bringing you the world
in your kitchen
[Music]
so today i'm at santo remedio a mexican
restaurant in the heart of london owned
by edson diaz buentes and natalie fury
so thank you to the both of you for
having me here today thanks for coming
thank you and you've made this lovely
looking dish so do you mind explaining
what you've made today
yes well those are tacos um
they are crispy rolled tacos and
barbacoa is one of the most traditional
dishes in mexican cooking
usually celebrations and the traditional
way of cooking that is on the ground
covered with magay leaves each
one of the most traditional states for
the waco is hidalgo
in central mexico but there are other
states that they do barbacoa
their own way some with um cow
some with lamb um in this case we'll
prepare our lambshang barbacoa here at
the restaurant
and literally just shred it and do the
raw taquitos
perfect yeah so i got to see a little
bit of you making it downstairs in the
kitchen
and is this a dish that you typically
serve at the restaurant or is it just a
special thing for today
to be honest was a special thing for
today we have done in the past
um crispy roll tacos some of them
larger version called flautas um but
because we have the lamb shank and i
know that lampshank is very popular and
here with sunder roast i think that this
is a very good recipe
so people can use the leftovers of this
on the roast
and with good um corn tortillas they can
roll it and make at home
this same dish that is very typical for
mexican
that looks great and i saw you use some
different ingredients downstairs do you
mind explaining the ingredients that go
into making this dish
mexican food is about slow cook
marinades the marinade is made with
three different kind of chilies so we
marinate the lamb overnight and then we
cook it in the oven for about three to
four hours
the marinade is made with oil
garlic onion three different kind of
chilies including pasilla
ancho and morita we blend all in the
in the blender and rub the meat leave it
to rest for
um for the night and then put it in the
oven um that's so the
the meat is super tender and spiced
not overpowering and then shred the meat
so we can feel the
tortillas that's perfect and
is this something that you can eat as
street food or is it something that's
more prepared at home
well i remember when i would go to visit
family in mexico i would go to
the market with them on a sunday and i
remember these were always my favorite
tacos to eat
because obviously it's something that's
you can eat with your hands because it's
already made in the
in the tacos as edson says barbacoa is a
really traditional dishes slow cooked
dish
i remember that's why it was one of my
favorite things because it's the crispy
tacos but with that extra special
filling um so it was like a sunday treat
when like we were saying somebody would
have a sunday roast a slow cooked meat
and it's sort of the best of both worlds
so you've got that
really special lamb that's been prepared
but in that style of the crispy tacos
that's
quick and easy to eat that just makes it
all the more delicious
i remember being in mexico city you go
to the market and you see
a pile of these raw tacos you know just
there
ready for ordering like two or three and
then
as a kid obviously sometimes you cannot
handle spicy salsa
so the good thing about mexican food is
like
sharing it's fast food in a way because
you can eat you know in front of the
taquero of the lady or the
barbacoa guy but that barbacoa took a
few hours if not you know the whole
night to cook
you know on the ground and then
you have the tacos you order the tacos
and you top with whatever salsa you
you want so in this case it was an
avocado salsa which is fresh
and cream i grew up here in england but
i would always go to mexico on holiday
to visit my grandparents at christmas or
in the summer holidays
and i remember that you would go in the
morning to the markets i'd go with my
grandmother to the market spend the
morning
shopping as edson mentioned having a few
snacks on the way then coming back
and i remember it feeling like an
eternity before it was time to eat
because obviously here we eat lunch
you know twelve o'clock one o'clock and
mexico lunch is at three
and it would be a three-course meal you
know it was you'd have
like a soup to start with then a main
dish that you would eat agisado which
would be
you know like the meat and some sides
with tortillas or bread on the side
and then whatever you want for dessert
with you only going back once a year to
mexico were you born here were you born
there and is that the same for you edson
so i was born here in england my father
was english and my mother's mexican
and we would travel once a year probably
for the whole of the summer holidays or
for christmas
so obviously it was a you know really
special occasion
the whole family would come to the
airport to collect us
in three cars just to collect me and my
mama
affair and like i said because sometimes
we go in the summer when it was my
birthday or in christmas when it's
christmas there'd always be
some sort of big celebration party
happening so what was it like growing up
in mexico then
well i'm from mexico city i'm born and
raised and
i remember when going to primary school
that my mom
we used to walk from the flat to the to
the school and there was a lady in the
corner that she was preparing tamales
and tamales are like um
steamed corn
parcels filled with
most of the time protein pork chicken
with mole
or rajas con queso or different kind of
feelings
and i remember just grabbing that was my
lunch
at at school so imagine me
going to school and it was very
traumatic when i
the lady wasn't there and i was
literally craving for my tamales
at lunch time so i think that mexicans
we
grow up with fresh food available
traditional festivities
grandma cooking mom cooking so literally
food is implicit in our childhood i
would love to hear a little bit more
about the traditional festivities that
you have there because clearly food's a
very central element to them
so what kind of festivities would there
be is there examples of holidays or
celebrations that you have there
um a lot of these festivities are linked
to um religious
background um and a lot of these
festivities are just cultural
festivities that we follow
and um it could be a birthday could be a
wedding
could be also a funeral and we turn
those occasions into a festivity
so natalie conversely growing up here
would you still go through the same
process of preparing a meal for days
prior to a birthday you know
wedding how is it different because in
mexico you would have access to all
these ingredients whereas here
it's a little bit harder to get access
to those traditional ingredients
yes well actually when i was growing up
it was not just difficult it was
impossible you couldn't even get
tortillas you couldn't get chilies you
couldn't get
anything so actually this dish that
edson cooked these crispy tacos
was actually one of the few dishes i
would have
in england growing up so you can fill
the crispy tacos with
chicken or how we serve them here at the
restaurant with
potato and that would be such a treat
for me whereas you know for
people growing up in mexico it was
probably what they would have once a
week their comfort food
and actually interestingly obviously
here turkey is a traditional thing for
christmas but in mexico it's such a huge
country with
so many um different traditions so many
different regions
so many different cultures because
you know mexico is a mix of the spanish
that went to mexico and then
all the different indigenous groups that
were there before that you know before
the spanish went to mexico there wasn't
just one
group of mexicans there was the aztecs
there was
the toltecs all these different groups
that had their traditions so for example
in mexico city
a traditional christmas meal is bacalao
which is a salted fish
with tomato
[Music]
so you've made this really lovely dish
for me to try today
but it's not on your normal restaurant
menu so what inspired you to make
this this is one of my of my memories i
have my childhood
in mexico because it is very traditional
to have
tacos dorados this is a proper name and
when you have a bigger tortilla larger
to see it's called flauta
bortaco dorados is something that you
have at your dinner table when you're a
kid normally with chicken
so we're sitting here in this gorgeous
space of yours right in the heart of
central london
what inspired you to start this
restaurant well for me
it was inspiration and the fact that
when i first came here over 10 years ago
mexican food wasn't available and
obviously i wanted to showcase my the
cuisine i grew up with
slowly slowly the the producers were
reaching the uk i could get some
ingredients we can start substituting
things
and i think that um just the desire of
bringing a little bit of the culture
and the cuisine i grew up with um that
was
the main inspiration to be honest and
it's
doing it in london allowed us to
showcase the
diversity of mexican food tacos
aguachiles
ceviches more or less um
sandwiches called torta so it's not it's
more about tacos a lot of people
has a perception that tacos is the only
you know
mexican dish mexican food has become a
lot more mainstream
in the uk but could you give us some
examples of dishes from your menu that
you
made to try and highlight some more
authentic mexican food
we have poor belly tacos that are
just like mexico city taco stands and a
lot of people come here and say
this reminds me mexico and that's what
we want when we hear
you know comments like that that makes
us happy and
um because it's all about
the right tortilla the right protein and
the salsa
and we try to replicate that so it's an
amazing achievement that you set up this
restaurant but what are the next steps
for santo remedio
we've also started our own line of
retail products our own tortillas
our own salsa salsa macha which is you
know the equivalent of like a
chili oil with seeds and nuts and dried
chilies
because like edson was saying what we
really want is people to experience
what mexico is like so when they come to
the restaurant we want them to feel like
they've been transported to mexico with
the cocktails with the music with the
food with the decor
with the hospitality i think that it's
just time for us to try the
barbacoa tacos
oh it looks so good like i'm salsa on
top looks so vibrant and lovely
it's so good you know mexican cuisine is
actually something that's
full of nutritious value and it's so
good for you like the avocado in this
in the salsa yeah the lettuce the
freshness of the flavors so it's a
combination of
the smoky chilies um obviously the
tortillas
and then and then the vibrancy of the
salsas with
the lime and the chilies and the herbs
[Music]
you